FidoNews 11-36                 Page:  2                    05 Sep 1994

A Few Comments about the FidoNet in Hong Kong

By: S.C.Martin Wong  -  Martin_Wong@HKMHBR.MHBRGRP.COM

     Before you read this passage, please excuse me my English
writing skill is so very bad.  Because I am only sixteen years old
very small BBS system operator in Hong Kong.(6:700/760).

     I joined FidoNet for 6 months.  I read a lot of echomail in
FidoNet.  I discovered two very serious problems in FidoNet Hong
Kong (Zone 6, Region 700).

Problem 1) In FidoNet Hong Kong local echo, user not allowed to use
           Chinese.

Problem 2) FidoNet Hong Kong has two NC!

     According to FidoNet Policy 4, English is FidoNet official
language.  In international echo, only allow user use English is
right!  Because English is international language.  But in local
echo, not allow user use Chinese is so very unacceptable!  Because
most BBS user in Hong Kong is Chinese or oversea Chinese, include
me.  Hong Kong BBS user English writing skill is very bad (like me).
I read mail in local echo is so very hard because Hong Kong BBS user
usually use incorrect grammar or spelling in their message, but no
person to correct their mistake.  I don't know what they said in the
mail.  I think local echo message will not send to another country.
Allow user use Chinese in local echo (not include local sysop echo,
because some BBS sysop in Hong Kong is foreigner!) is very
FidoNews 11-36                 Page:  3                    05 Sep 1994

reasonable!  Because most BBS user are Chinese, make more BBS user
read and write message easily will make more BBS user using Fidonet
Hong Kong.

     Another serious problem in FidoNet Hong Kong is FidoNet Hong
Kong has two NC.

     FidoNet Hong Kong was made by Louis Chan and another foreign
sysop in Hong Kong.  Then Louis Chan was Hong Kong FidoNet NC.  But
Louis Chan is so very busy man, he usually not read the message and
do not do management work in FidoNet Hong Kong.  Some sysop hope
change the NC, then some sysop elected Chris Leung to do the NC.  In
this time, Louis Chan said he is the NC, some sysop disagreed it.
But Louis Chan said reason is more important than legality.  Now, I
don't know who is the true NC.

     I hope Hong Kong FidoNet sysop read this passage, they can
think how to make FidoNet Hong Kong better than Now.

                                  S.C. Martin Wong
                                  Hong Kong Man Hing Book Room,
                                  System Operator
                                  in British Hong Kong
                                  (6:700/760.0@FidoNet.org)
