Subject: FidoNet Hong Kong Goes To The Dogs!
From:    Roger Nie (16:700/200)

               FidoNet Hong Kong Goes To The Dogs
               ==================================

                     Editor   : Larry Campbell
                     From magazine "DATAPHILE"

  Of all the electronic bulletin boards listed in the preceding
few pages, the majority are part of an international network
called FidoNet. Or should I say "were".

  Thanks to events that have traspired in the local FidoNet
community for as long as the past year, there appear to now be
two local nodes to the network: one small official system and a
huge network of BBSes getting on to FidoNet via what has been
term by one insider a "semi-legal kludge"

  To understand any part of the "big picture", you must first
have an understanding of FidoNet and how its operates. Think of
FidoNews 12-02                 Page: 10                    09 Jan 1995

FidoNet on the same lines as you would think of the Internet,
except scale down the concept the concept a thousand times.
FidoNet is a central hub connected to a clain of PC networks (or
BBSes) around the world, the main function of which is to pass
arround store-and-forward free E-mail called Echomail.

  FidoNet is divided into three areas: zones; regions; and
networks. Six zones make up the FidoNet world: North America,
Europe, Australia, Latin America, South Africa and Asia. Each
Zone is assigned a number, with North America being Zone 1 and
Asia being Zone 6. Zones are divided into regions, with Hong
Kong/MAcau, Taiwan and Singapore (plus a few other areas) being
regions within the Asia "zone". Regions are further divided into
Networks, and Hong Kong is Net700. Thus, if you were looking at
a FidoNet node list, a node number of a member in Hong Kong
would look something like 6:700/344, for example.

  FidoNet, as any organisation should have, has its management
heirarchy, with zone, and network co-ordinators, and so on.
Asia's zone co-ordinator is a gentleman based in Taiwan named
Honlin Lue. Next down the ladder is Hong-Kong-based regional
co-ordinator Samson Luk, a man who has been involved in FidoNet
(if not in his current post) for more than a decade. Under Mr
Luk are - or were - a number of other co-ordinators. One is
Roger Nie, who co-ordinates FidoNet echos in Hong KOng, making
sure each echo is named right so that the proper links can be
set up between member BBSes. He also maintains a list of echos.

  A gentleman named Louie Chan was involved in FidoNet for
just about as long as Mr Luk and had beed happily performing a
number of tasks, including the tedious and thankless one of
maintaining the FidoNet Hong Kong node list. Until about a year,
that is. What appears to have happened is that about a year ago
Mr Luk received a few complaints from some local FidoNet sysops
against Mr. Chan claiming the latter had not replied some of
their mail and in short was not doing his job. So Mr Luk "fired"
Mr Chan and appointed Chris Leung - a relative newcomer to the
scene - to do his job... a move that made the majority of the
local FidoNet community unhappy, to say the least. the reason:
the network heirarchy is supporsed to be arranged by vote
involving all members, although admittedly no hard and fast rule
exists on this score. The result has bcome what can only be
described as a complete farce, a comedy with the only people
being hurt being FidoNet's numerous users in Hong Kong.

  Upon his appointment to his current FidoNet post, Mr Leung
decided to "clean up" FidoNet Hong Kong, E-mailing memeber
sysops with requests for forms to be filled out, amoung other
things. What responses he got were, in on-line speak, flames.

  Insiders say he  then  disappeared  from  Causeway,  a
semi-official message echo set up for FidoNet sysops, only to
reappear about four months later with the wonderful news that he
has dissolving network 700 to completely revamp FidoNet Hong
Kong. And he did, full world of FidoNet. He then asked sysops
FidoNews 12-02                 Page: 11                    09 Jan 1995

interested in rejoining FidoNet to register with him.

  To date, only about 30 sysops have dones so, and these
according to sources, are newcomers to the sence.

  Network 700 did not, however, die quietly. It has not, for
that matter, died at all. With the majority of sysops loyal to
him. Mr Chan with the help of Mr Nie, controlled that networks,
albeit unofficially, and a new zone number has been set up to
ensure its mail goes back and fourth. BBSes on this network are
now identified as 16:700/whatever. The power play did not stop
there.

  The Chan loyalists then attempted to hold a vote of sorts
where they could oust Mr. Leung and Mr Luk from their posts.
However, to do so, they apparently needed the ultimate approval
of zone co-ordinator Mr Lue, who to-date has been silent on the
issue..

  Attempts by local sysops to have the matter resolved by the
upper echelons of FidoNet in the United States have failed, too,
which has had a totally detrimental effect on FidoNet.

  Now, all this is very strange. FidoNet was (is) supposed to
be a non-commercial on-line group of hobby of hobby BBS
operators pooling resources to offer low-cost (albeit low-speed)
E-mail to users. All this infighting has, however, made a
mockery of the whole concept, and the fact that no one in any
position of power appears to be taking the slightest bit of
interest in fixing the situation is not helping either.

  One of the things I heard was that at one point a few months
ago,  some brilliant mind within the local community had
suggested the sysops get together and file a classs action suit
against Mr Luk. What they would have charged him with is a
mystery. Perhaps with causing loss to their hobbies? What a
laugh!

  But then again, maybe it would have worked.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
